h1. Lebops

This is a Rails gem which normalizes the deployment life-cycle of Rails Web App.

Based on:
* RVM, Capistrano and Rake tasks.
* Different environments [development test vagrant staging production]
* Two differents repositories: Development and Client remotes

h2.  Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

pre. gem 'lebops'

And then execute:

pre. bundle

Or install it yourself as:

pre. $ gem install lebops

h2. Usage

h3. Prepare Capistrano Environments

1. Bundle and Capify with: capify .

2. Configure config/deploy.rb:

pre. set :application, "pet-contest"
require 'lebops/deploy' 

3. Create particular config for each environment in deploy/[staging.rb|vagrant.rb|production.rb]. i.e.:

pre. set :thin_servers, 1
set :thin_port, 3500
server "labs.myhome.com", :app, :web, :db, :primary => true
set :repository,  "git@labs.myhome.com:#{application}.git"

4. Install application:

pre. cap [env] app:setup

5. Update application:

pre. cap [env] app:update

h3. Operation tasks

pre. rake app:db_reset                 # Reset and seed DataBase

Really usefull commands to access your envirinments:

pre. cap [env] ops:console              # Open a console for the current stage
cap [env] ops:log                  # Tail the Rails log for the current stage
cap [env] ops:ssh                  # Open a ssh connection for the current stage

App server:
pre. cap [env] thin:restart             # Restart server
cap [env] thin:setup               # Sets up Thin server environments
cap [env] thin:start               # Start server
cap [env] thin:stop                # Stop server

h3. Release Cycle

Releasing code:
* rake version:client_remote[git@bitbucket.org:jlebrijo/pet-contest.git] : create remote with client repo in local
* rake version:release[0.1.3] : For all remotes
** Merge (Fast Forward) origin:master / client_remote:master
** Create a tag with version number
* rake version:remove[0.1.3] : deletes version tag in all remotes

h2. Contributing

# Fork it
# Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
# Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
# Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
# Create new Pull Request
